# Hexagons are the Bestagons: Design Automation for Silicon Dangling Bond Logic

This repository provides complimentary data for the paper "Hexagons are the Bestagons: Design Automation for Silicon
Dangling Bond Logic" by M. Walter, S. S. H. Ng, K. Walus, and R. Wille published in DAC 2022.

## ML-generated SiDB *Bestagon* Gates

TODO

## Experimental Evaluation: Physical Design of SiDB Layouts

The `experiments` folder contains all layout files obtained by the physical design process laid out in the paper as well
as a C++ code file that implements the algorithm to reproduce said data via the FCN framework
[*fiction*](https://github.com/marcelwa/fiction).

### Source code: `bestagon.cpp`

The C++ code that implements the physical design algorithm presented in the paper. It utilizes the FCN framework
[*fiction*](https://github.com/marcelwa/fiction). To compile it, place the file in *fiction*'s `experiments`
folder and call CMake with the `-DFICTION_EXPERIMENTS=ON` flag.

To learn more, see *fiction*'s
[documentation on how to build experiments](https://fiction.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#building-experiments).

### Raw data: `bestagon.json`

When running the binary that results from compiling `bestagon.cpp`, a `bestagon.json` file is created (as well as a
directory with layout files, see below). This file contains extensive experimental data in JSON format together with a
Git commit tag that points towards the version it was compiled with. The file existing in this repo points towards a tag
in *fiction*'s repo.

### Formatted data: `bestagon.csv`

An excerpt from `bestagon.json` that was presented in Table I of the paper.

### Circuit layouts: `layouts/`

A directory that contains dot-accurate SiDB layouts generated by the compiled `bestagon.cpp`. The layouts are present
in `SQD` format that is used by the SiDB CAD tool [*SiQAD*](https://github.com/siqad/siqad). Utilizing this tool, the
circuit layouts' behavior can be validated by physical simulations.
